README.md, before:

# Demystifying TikTok :notes:
This project is a part of the [Data Blog](https://datares.github.io/#/datablog) at [DataResolutions](https://datares.github.io/#/).  The article published on this project, along with other articles from Data Blog, can be found on [Medium](https://medium.com/@ucladatares).

## Project Motivation/Description :dizzy:
The purpose of this project is to explore various aspects of TikTok—specifically the demographics of TikTok's most followed users and the analytics of trending videos on TikTok. Questions we wanted to answer include: **Add stuff here**

### Technologies Used :computer:
* R 
* Python
* NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, SeasBorn, Plotly, jupyter

## Getting Started :page_facing_up:

1. Clone this repository (for help see this [tutorial](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/)).
2. Raw Data is being kept [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Datasets) within this repo.  
3. Data processing/visualization scripts are being kept [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Visualizations)

## Data Collection :open_file_folder:
For the data collection, we had a different method of collection for our trending videos dataset and our top tiktokers dataset.

### Trending Videos
[TikTok data collection article](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-collect-data-from-tiktok-tutorial-ab848b40d191)
[TikTok API](https://github.com/davidteather/TikTok-Api)

...ADD PROCESS OF COLLECTION W/ API HERE...

### Top TikTokers
For the collection of the top TikTokers, we use the simple webscraping module on Python [BeautifulSoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/). The scripts and html pages used can be seen [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Datasets/Top%20Tiktokers%20Data%20Collection) in this repo. For the webscraping, we found information for the first 6 columns of our dataset from [InflueceGrid](https://www.influencegrid.com/tiktok-influencers). The remaining information was manually entered, citing sources such as [Famous Birthdays](https://www.famousbirthdays.com/) and [TikTok](https://www.tiktok.com/en/).

This dataset `top-260-tiktokers.csv` looks into the demographics of the top 260 TikTokers and is used to explore possible commanalities of the top influencers on the platform.

It consists of 14 columns:
* `Rank`
* `Username`
* `Country`
* `Followers`
* `Views` (median of 15 most recent videos collected on 10-24-2020)
* `Likes` (median of 15 most recent videos collected on 10-24-2020)
* `Engagement` (Views + Likes + Shares / 15 most recent videos, collected on 10-24-2020)
* `Brand Account` (1 for true, 0 for false)
* `Gender` (Based on what information is public about their identity)
* `Age`
* `Ethnicity`
* `Famous` (1 for if they were already famous before TikTok, 0 for not)
* `Genre` (categories that would define their main content)
* `LBGTQ` (1 if they are a member of the LGBTQ community, 0 if not. Based on what information is public about their identity)

#### get-csv Webscraping
Simply using the get-csv.py script will allow you to obtain the first 6 columns of `top-260-tiktokers.csv`

1. Get the necessary libraries to obtain and parse the html of the data
`pip install beautifulsoup4`
`pip install urllib3`
2. Using `urllib.request` and `BeautifulSoup` you can retrieve the html of any page and make it "parsable". (Note: some sites are secure and can deter you from reading their url)
```
#open a url (my_url should be a string of the url)
uClient = urlopen(my_url)
page_html = uClient.read()
uClient.close()
#save the page as "soup" that can be parsed
page_soup = soup(page_html, "html.parser")
```
3. Following commands from the [BeautifulSoup Documentation](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/), you can get the necessary information from the html page and write it into a file (using commas and newline to make it a CSV file).

#### Adding remaining information
We were not able to find a cohesive list of information on the demographics of the top TikTokers, so we manually entered in the remaining columns.

## Data Cleaning :shower:
For the `top-260-tiktokers.csv` dataset, we first removed the unnecessary symbols from our numerical column entries (such as the % or 'm' to indicate a million) and converted those datatypes from object to float. For the remaining columns, the entries were entered in manually so we did not have to clean up any possible duplicate/nonsensical values/entries that appeared in the data.

## Data Analysis :bar_chart:
Our analysis can be found [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Analysis). Each member of the team contributed to delevoping visualizations for our article, half working on Trending TikTok videos and the other half on demographics of the Top 250 TikTokers. The technologies we used is mentioned at the beginning of the README.

### Trending Videos
Insert questions that were visualized here

### Top TikTokers
First we wanted to get a general sense of what demographics the top 250 TikTokers fall under. We used various categorical plots such as barplots, pie charts, and treemaps to have different and interesting visuals of the age, country, gender, and ethnicity distrbution of the users. We also wanted to see the distribution of genders and ethnicites of users specifically in the U.S.A (the country with the most top followed TikTokers) who were not previously famous to see what the most probable demographics of a "breakout" TikTok star would be. For this, we used a sanky diagram to see the proportions of newly famous TikTokers in the US based on gender, ethnicity, and the main genre of their content.
Next we wanted to compare the differences in engagement between the top male and female users. We used barplots to compare the likes/views per each of the top genres for males and females on the platform. We also used a catplot with some added line plots to visualize the percentage difference in likes per view that men and women received in each of the top genres.

## Contributing DataRes Members :muscle:

|Name     | Position | Slack Handle   | 
|---------|----------|----------------|
|Ivan Tran | Team Lead | [@ivantran96](https://github.com/ivantran96) |
|Kaushik Naresh | Member | [@kaushiknaresh47](https://github.com/kaushiknaresh47) |
|Isha Shah | Member | [@ishashah146](https://github.com/ishashah146) |
|Madison Kohls | Member | [@madisonkohls](https://github.com/madisonkohls) |

Commit message:

added to trending video description

README.md, after:

# Demystifying TikTok :notes:
This project is a part of the [Data Blog](https://datares.github.io/#/datablog) at [DataResolutions](https://datares.github.io/#/).  The article published on this project, along with other articles from Data Blog, can be found on [Medium](https://medium.com/@ucladatares).

## Project Motivation/Description :dizzy:
The purpose of this project is to explore various aspects of TikTok—specifically the demographics of TikTok's most followed users and the analytics of trending videos on TikTok. Questions we wanted to answer include: **Add stuff here**

### Technologies Used :computer:
* R 
* Python
* NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, SeasBorn, Plotly, jupyter

## Getting Started :page_facing_up:

1. Clone this repository (for help see this [tutorial](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/)).
2. Raw Data is being kept [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Datasets) within this repo.  
3. Data processing/visualization scripts are being kept [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Visualizations)

## Data Collection :open_file_folder:
For the data collection, we had a different method of collection for our trending videos dataset and our top tiktokers dataset.

### Trending Videos
[TikTok data collection article](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-collect-data-from-tiktok-tutorial-ab848b40d191)

[TikTok API](https://github.com/davidteather/TikTok-Api)

...ADD PROCESS OF COLLECTION W/ API HERE...
For the collection of trending videos, we used [David Teather's Unofficial TikTok Api](https://www.google.com/search?q=tiktok+api&oq=tiktok+api&aqs=chrome.0.69i59j0i20i263j0l5j69i60.1342j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8) to collect the data. Currently, we are using the api's `trending` method to collect the data on trending videos. This selection of trending videos by this method is assumed to be what is labeled as tredning by TikTok. In addition, using the list of top TikTokers, we compiled a large amount of users using the `getSuggestedUsersbyIDCrawler` api method, which used the top TikTokers and collected the suggested users. Along with the `byUsername` method, which collects videos from specfic TikTokers given their username, we collected video data of the 25 most recent posts of each user from the top TikTokers list and the suggested list. 

From our video data, we are planning on distinguishing popular posts of each user in order to see how those specific posts are able to outpeform the rest of the videos from the users.

### Top TikTokers
For the collection of the top TikTokers, we use the simple webscraping module on Python [BeautifulSoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/). The scripts and html pages used can be seen [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Datasets/Top%20Tiktokers%20Data%20Collection) in this repo. For the webscraping, we found information for the first 6 columns of our dataset from [InflueceGrid](https://www.influencegrid.com/tiktok-influencers). The remaining information was manually entered, citing sources such as [Famous Birthdays](https://www.famousbirthdays.com/) and [TikTok](https://www.tiktok.com/en/).

This dataset `top-260-tiktokers.csv` looks into the demographics of the top 260 TikTokers and is used to explore possible commanalities of the top influencers on the platform.

It consists of 14 columns:
* `Rank`
* `Username`
* `Country`
* `Followers`
* `Views` (median of 15 most recent videos collected on 10-24-2020)
* `Likes` (median of 15 most recent videos collected on 10-24-2020)
* `Engagement` (Views + Likes + Shares / 15 most recent videos, collected on 10-24-2020)
* `Brand Account` (1 for true, 0 for false)
* `Gender` (Based on what information is public about their identity)
* `Age`
* `Ethnicity`
* `Famous` (1 for if they were already famous before TikTok, 0 for not)
* `Genre` (categories that would define their main content)
* `LBGTQ` (1 if they are a member of the LGBTQ community, 0 if not. Based on what information is public about their identity)

#### get-csv Webscraping
Simply using the get-csv.py script will allow you to obtain the first 6 columns of `top-260-tiktokers.csv`

1. Get the necessary libraries to obtain and parse the html of the data
`pip install beautifulsoup4`
`pip install urllib3`
2. Using `urllib.request` and `BeautifulSoup` you can retrieve the html of any page and make it "parsable". (Note: some sites are secure and can deter you from reading their url)
```
#open a url (my_url should be a string of the url)
uClient = urlopen(my_url)
page_html = uClient.read()
uClient.close()
#save the page as "soup" that can be parsed
page_soup = soup(page_html, "html.parser")
```
3. Following commands from the [BeautifulSoup Documentation](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/), you can get the necessary information from the html page and write it into a file (using commas and newline to make it a CSV file).

#### Adding remaining information
We were not able to find a cohesive list of information on the demographics of the top TikTokers, so we manually entered in the remaining columns.

## Data Cleaning :shower:
For the `top-260-tiktokers.csv` dataset, we first removed the unnecessary symbols from our numerical column entries (such as the % or 'm' to indicate a million) and converted those datatypes from object to float. For the remaining columns, the entries were entered in manually so we did not have to clean up any possible duplicate/nonsensical values/entries that appeared in the data.

## Data Analysis :bar_chart:
Our analysis can be found [here](https://github.com/ivantran96/TikTok_famous/tree/main/Analysis). Each member of the team contributed to delevoping visualizations for our article, half working on Trending TikTok videos and the other half on demographics of the Top 250 TikTokers. The technologies we used is mentioned at the beginning of the README.

### Trending Videos
Insert questions that were visualized here

### Top TikTokers
First we wanted to get a general sense of what demographics the top 250 TikTokers fall under. We used various categorical plots such as barplots, pie charts, and treemaps to have different and interesting visuals of the age, country, gender, and ethnicity distrbution of the users. We also wanted to see the distribution of genders and ethnicites of users specifically in the U.S.A (the country with the most top followed TikTokers) who were not previously famous to see what the most probable demographics of a "breakout" TikTok star would be. For this, we used a sanky diagram to see the proportions of newly famous TikTokers in the US based on gender, ethnicity, and the main genre of their content.
Next we wanted to compare the differences in engagement between the top male and female users. We used barplots to compare the likes/views per each of the top genres for males and females on the platform. We also used a catplot with some added line plots to visualize the percentage difference in likes per view that men and women received in each of the top genres.

## Contributing DataRes Members :muscle:

|Name     | Position | Slack Handle   | 
|---------|----------|----------------|
|Ivan Tran | Team Lead | [@ivantran96](https://github.com/ivantran96) |
|Kaushik Naresh | Member | [@kaushiknaresh47](https://github.com/kaushiknaresh47) |
|Isha Shah | Member | [@ishashah146](https://github.com/ishashah146) |
|Madison Kohls | Member | [@madisonkohls](https://github.com/madisonkohls) |
